# HybridMFP
A Hierarchical Multimodal Fusion Deep Learning Model for Post-Stroke Upper Limb Motor Function Assessment Using sEMG and Kinematic Signals


Precise assessment of upper limb motor function during the rehabilitation stage after a stroke is needed, but most clinical applications at present only use subjective clinical scales. The Hierarchical Fusion Network (HybridMFP) is proposed in this study to integrate surface electromyography (sEMG) and kinematic (KIN) signals for automatic quantification of Fugl-Meyer Assessment for Upper Extremity (FMA-UE). Use 12-channel sEMG and 63-dimensional KIN signals, perform dynamic time warping (DTW)-based temporal alignment and standardisation preprocessing, and then conduct cross-modal deep feature learning via a hierarchical fusion network. Elastic Net feature selection and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) were used to reduce the dimension subsequently, and then an ensemble learning regression model was built to predict FMA-UE scores. Model performance was evaluated by leave‑one‑subject‑out cross‑validation (LOSOCV), and the proposed multimodal fusion model achieved a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.70 and a prediction accuracy of 85.0%. Reduce prediction error and improve the accuracy of the baseline method by 10% and 27%, respectively. In addition, the model has shown significantly better predictive accuracy, goodness-of-fit and generalization robustness compared with unimodal models and traditional fusion methods; therefore, it can be used for accurate and automatic prediction of post-stroke upper limb FMA-UE scores to provide objective, quantitative and reproducible motor function assessment. The above are the foundation for clinical function stratification, rehabilitation planning, prognosis assessment and remote monitoring. It is also a light-weight, highly reliable sensing framework and artificial intelligence technology that promotes the development of intelligent rehabilitation.


The datasets generated and analysed during the current study are available in the Rocky_Data repository, under  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jinanzuo/kin-fma , or  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/wuxingang/rocky-data
